This movie was simply awful. Willy Wonka lacked the warmth, humor and wit that was shown by Gene Wilder in the original. The use of one person as the Oompa loompas comes off as cheap production, whether it was or not. The changes made, even subtle ones such as the order or events between Charlie finding the money and getting the last ticket and the introduction of the elevator just seem off. One of the most memorable moments is left out, which is the fizzy drink that makes Charlie and Uncle Joe float around. The oompa loompa sequences are horrible, the main characters fail to connect with the viewer as they did in the original.. I could go on and on but will just end by saying.... This movie is proof that new technology, different actors, producers and directors do not always equal a better experience. Save your time and your money... buy and watch the original. My 5 year only daughter even prefers it over the new.

Absolutely awful. Sorry, it's the truth. I wanted it to be good too. The original is brilliant, a timeless piece of pop culture. But what Tim Burton did to this film... OK, picture Fred Durst, Avril Lavigne, the Spice Girls, and the New Kids on the Block covering "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band." Drunk. That is really how bad this film is. My biggest problem with the film is that they left out Charlie's sin. I mean, no fizzy lifting drinks? C'mon!! One of the things that humanized the original Charlie, the polite and thoughtful one amongst a pastiche of brats, is that Charlie too broke the rules, and reasonably invoked Wonka's wrath. Charlie's innate good nature eventually redeems him, Also, for Darwin's sake, cut out the music. "PAINFUL" is the only word I can conjure to describe it. I will admit that I have not read the Dahl novel, so I do not know if the original included all the drudgerous background on Wonka. However, the constant flow-killing flashbacks slows the pace of the movie to a crawl, and normally Depp's acting can carry any role, but this script and character rendering were just terrible. Perhaps the background information on Wonka should have been one big chunk in the beginning of the movie, because spacing it out has no build-up value at all. Also, worst voice on a Depp character, well, ever. There really was nothing to redeem this piece-of-crap moneysucker. I can't believe I actually wasted $12 to see it. Between this, "The Stepford Wives," and "Godzilla," I have lost all faith in the movie industry.

This movie was simply awful. I am waiting for someone, anyone, to point out that Johnny Depp was just terrible. The first twenty minutes, in a grandiose fashion, leads us to a giant man named Willy Wonka who can put the world on it's toes by putting gold tickets inside five candy bars. Then when you meet Wonka, he's nothing. Johnny Depp is as pale as a sheet; I'm not referring to his white makeup and fake white teeth, but his acting. He's doing an imitation of Jim Carrey doing an imitation of Michael Jackson. His Wonka not believable at all. The kids are just bad. Rich, and bad. You get the whole Hollywood push of "rich kids are evil, while poor kids are perfect", meanwhile, what about the children of Hollywood actors and producers and directors, are they exempt because their parents are artists instead of capitalists? I don't get it. I just don't get it. I really don't get this at all. This movie was so terrible. The songs were horrid. One Oompa Loompa playing them all of them was cheap and lame; and the songs made me hide my head in disgust. And there is a segment where Burton pays "tribute" to Stanley Kubrick's "2001", and it's all but blasphemous to people like me who literally worship classic films. In the original, Gene Wilder was believable. He really seemed like the character. He was the character. But Depp, as usual, was simply performing. Horrible. Horrible. One of the worst movies I have ever seen. A C.G.I. overkill.

Ahem, where do I start? When seeing this movie the first thing that struck me was the "exciting" music at the beginning which reminded me a bit of Harry Potter. The opening scene was absolutely riveting, showing the wrapping of bars of chocolate. I almost fell off my sit because I was so intrigued. The beginning of the film surpassed itself in making us realize by about 2 minutes of it that it was going to be absolutely dreadful. The real fun began when we met Willy Wonka. I won't say who he reminded me of.. anyone who's seen the film would know and I don't want to spoil the pleasant surprise for those of you who haven't yet had the honour. The oompaloompa dances were possibly the worst things I have ever seen. Who choreographed them?! I want to meet this insane idiot! It literally made me want to puke. They had an eerie kind of synchronization which was so unnatural that it was scary. I admit to finding the first dance slightly amusing but by the time I'd got to the 4th I was just staring at the screen in disgust. Words of warning: Don't go and see this sad excuse for entertainment. See the original!!

I went to see this film as I am a big Johnny Depp fan, but I was completely turned off by the whole thing. The pace was so slow I was almost asleep, and I kept waiting for the magical moments to happen. Alas, they never did. The opening went on for ever and a day - remember the wonderful entrance Gene Wilder makes in the original? Well, Willy Wonka's entrance here, with the stupid "song" of the puppets, was just dire. He actually looked embarrassed to be there. The parents of the "lucky winners" were one-dimensional to say the least, and although the child actors were OK they were nothing to write home about. My 11 year old son went with me to see this film, and as we came out of the theatre I was wondering what he would have to say about it (and whether I would have to pretend that I had liked it!) but the first thing he said was, "Well, that's not the best film I've ever see. Bit of a disappointment really." I just felt that the director had wasted so many opportunities, not to try to emulate the first film, but to bring some fresh magic to the wonderful story. Instead, all we got was long-drawn out scenes, bad dialogue and a faintly embarrassed Johnny Depp.

Just like so many other remakes of great films, this is one that fails miserably on so many levels. First of all, Johnny Depp does not display near the wit nor the charisma that Gene Wlider did in the original. You actually see Willy Wonka before the big day arrives, which takes some of the mystery out of the character. None of the characters are really enjoyable like in the first film. They seem to lack any real emotion or style. The special effects are overkill for the overtone of this story. It is almost like Walt Disney meets Timothy Leary. If you are a fan of the original, steer clear of this abomination.

If you're looking for a remake of the original movie, you'll be greatly disappointed. I have no idea if it's closer to the book since I never read it, but I don't really care. Two of my friends were baked and they hated it also. Johnny Depp came no where near portraying this genuinely nutty recluse like Gene Wilder did, and the factory and oompaloompas did not have the magic, appeal or mystery of the original movie. And they removed one of the best scenes when charlie and his grandfather were floating from the fizzy lifting drink. The only really good scenes involved charlie's grandparents at home, they were really funny and I loved the one grandfather's comments about the other gold ticket winners. But in the end, i've never seen so many disappointed movie-goers. If you really want to see it, save your 10 bucks and wait for the DVD.

This movie version stunk! Yes, I know it was more to the book but having Johnny Depp??? Come on. Don't get me wrong, I do like Johnny Depp. He's had his share of good and bad movies but this another bad one (I don't think he can get any worse than Cry-Baby). Anyways, I do believe they could have done better for the role of Willy Wonka! Much better. You can really tell this was a Tim Burton movie. The coloring, the acting, and the sets. How about that house?? Seemed like one small touch to it and it would just fall like a deck of cards. How can Charlie really sleep with the roof open like that? (Yea, I know, it is a fantasy book) The Oompa Loompa scenes were terrible! It was interesting that the same guy played ALL of the Oompa Loompas but the dance scenes were just plain awful. Just another part which downgraded this movie. But back to the fact that he played ALL of the Oompa Loompas, would it have hurt to get more than ONE person to play the parts??!? At least in the Mel Stuart version, they got a bunch of them to play the parts and some of them couldn't speak English! OK, time for the good parts. Tough to do. I would give this movie an 8 for the special effects. The glass elevator for instance. Traveling throughout the factory and even through the town with rockets. Nice. So having the choice of the Mel Stuart version, which got away from the book a lot but good actors, or this new Tim Burton, which stuck to the book but bad choice of actors, I would still pick the Mel Stuart version in a second!! Sorry Roald Dahl!!

There is no way Tim Burton could make anything without some sicko slant to it (as here with a display parody of Disney's "It's a Small, Small World" display at Disney World melting with dolls seeming to bleed and becoming disfigured and ghoulish creatures to frighten children. What was mild dis-ease in the original comes across as full-blown sickness in this Burton-ized bastardization. I don't know what trauma he suffered as a child, if any, but he seems hell-bent (literally) on inflicting it on other children with "Corpse Brides", making Halloween hellish and now this. Don't allow this trash or anything else Tim Burton has anything to do with near your children. Period.

All I can say that there can be no human alive who could possibly like this version over the original version with Gene Wilder. I actually liked the movie up until Johnny Depp appeared. From there on, it was terrible and I couldn't wait for the movie to be over. I don't know what Tim Burton/Johhny Depp were thinking. First, Willy Wonka shouldn't look like he is a 30 year old transvestite. Charlie's grandfather worked for Willy Wonka decades ago, so he should look somewhat middle aged. Next, Willy Wonka is supposed to be a genius. Johnny Depp plays him like a stupid eight year old kid. I don't believe for a second he is some kind of genius. Johnny Depp is neither a likable or funny character. He is just weird. Very few funny moments. Gene Wilder's performance, on the other hand, is fantastic. He captures oddness, with humor and intelligence. The Oompa Loompas songs were simply unbearable....just awful. The rest of the cast was actually good. All the children were pretty well played. I didn't like the parents much especially compared to the original version. Veruca's dad in the first movie was much more effective. Charlie and his family were well cast, especially Charlie. All in all...very disappointing. It's a poor interpretation of the book and a disgrace compared to the first movie.