Not exactly the charming film it's purported to be. Willy Wonka, as played by Gene Wilder, is the grown-up stranger all parents warn their kids not to talk to. He's smarmy. He's a little TOO friendly. He's horribly frightening. And to my utter astonishment, he turns out to be deadly. If I were 10 years old and I encountered Gene Wilder's Willy Wonka, I would run screaming from his presence as fast as my terrified little legs would carry me. I certainly wouldn't accept an invitation to visit his hellish chocolate factory where small children are slurped to their demise in giant vats of confection. This is supposed to be a CHILDREN'S film? It belongs on a double-feature bill with "Texas Chainsaw Massacre." What a perverted, hateful movie, and what a dirty trick to play on innocent children.

A horrific and nauseating piece of moldy candy. This lame and terrible adaptation of the first book I read as a child should be burned and forgotten. So many pointless changes where made, terrible songs where added and the magic was drained from the original prose. Even as a very small child I did not understand why they gave the movie a different title, then I realized it was because it had nothing to do with the book. Very little of Rould Dahls story is here, instead we are flooded with cheap sets, chocolate that looks like dirty water, bad acting and the some of the worse songs ever. I've seen several trailers for the new adaptation, and I'm hyped to see the great glass elevator fly at last! Pass on this one, go with Tim Burton's film.

Rotten Piece of Junk! This was a very cheesy film,I don't mean the food for all you cheese lovers,lol.Anyway this was terrible,It had old graphics,it didn't even have the title of the book.The actors were insane,I would rather watch ''Dumbo''.Charlie looked like a girl for petesake. I recommend the new & improved version directed by Tim Burton & composed by Danny Elfman. Johnny Depp was great and much better then Gene Wilder. Freddy Heighmore also did a better job in my opinion then the other actor who played Charlie in the 1971 version. The ompa loompa's were much better in this film. I feel they had more of a purpose in the new film,Deep Roy did a great job playing the ompa loompa's. Definitely go rent the 2005 film "Charlie & the Chocolate Factory" instead of this 1971 movie.

don't watch this!!!!!! Although many people found the movie great,well, I didn't and so will you. First of all if you read the book you'll probably come upon this movie and feel desperate to watch it,but don't it's a waste of time, the props are junky,the acting, oh my god,it's not even funny, it's even worse than you imagine it will be,I also hate the characters and Willy Wonka is is bad, this movie doesn't even have sounds or special effects and the music(yuck),but come on give these guys a break it's in the 70's.Heres a tip if you read the book and dying to see the movie, turn to CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY starring Johnny Depp,this movie is funnier and so darn cool,the actors are okay and I would recommend this movie for RONALD DAHL readers.Hope this comment was useful.

And they say the new movie is dark... This is undoubtedly the worst movie ever made. Every second I was watching it my eyes were being burned out. First of all, I thought that the book was OK. It had its charm, but wasn't a great American classic. This movie is not the book, they took the same general concept and then put their own bad spin on everything. I don't mind if they change some things like the squirrels to geese, because they did not have the technology to do squirrels. But changing the song lyrics and adding their own songs, that was bad. The Ommpa Loompas were all wrong, how anyone could even come up with the idea of making their skin orange and hair green is anyone's guess. I could have done with out the demonic chanting when their on the boat. Have you even read the lyrics? Wonka & Cast: Round the world and home again That's the sailor's way Faster faster, faster faster. There's no earthly way of knowing Which direction we are going There's no knowing where we're rowing Or which way the river's flowing. Is it raining, is it snowing Is a hurricane a-blowing. Not a speck of light is showing So the danger must be growing Are the fires of Hell a-glowing Is the grisly reaper mowing. Yes, the danger must be growing For the rowers keep on rowing And they're certainly not showing Any signs that they are slowing. This is scary. Is Wonka trying to kill these kids? And they say that the new movie is dark. At least Wonka warns them, and not in the weird way Wilder did. Sure, he has not been around people in a while and he obviously cares more about his candy than the kids, but he should still care a little. Do yourself a favor and never see this horrid movie.

That stuff'll rot your teeth! Everyone knows this movie, what with the endless supply of candy. It's hard to believe that Dr. Fronk-en-steen played Willy Wonka, or that "The Man" from "Chico and the Man" played the grandfather. I've read Roald Dahl's book, which didn't have a bunch of songs (except those from the Oompa Loompas). I will be eager to see what Tim Burton and Johnny Depp do with the remake, as they are both people whom I trust. Granted, Gene Wilder has always been good (especially when co-starring with Richard Pryor), but this version of "Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory" was pretty hokey. Still, the scene where the girl turns into a blueberry was kinda neat.

I'll Never Eat Chocolate Again. Yes. Indeed. Speaking about the likes of greed, gluttony, and the absolute grotesque - You can be sure, it's all here - Wrapped up into one deceitful, under-handed, little package that has Willy Wonka's chocolatey mess smeared all over it. Without question - (From my perspective) - This 1971 children's picture has got to be one of the ugliest, most cringe-worthy movie-experiences that I've had to endure in a mighty long time. Its stupid-minded story is utterly childish nastiness to the max. And the totally repulsive "Willy Wonka" character (played so spitefully by Gene Wilder) is even more despicable than the obnoxious, little brats who all win a visit to Wonka's chocolate factory and inevitably get their (rightful?) comeuppance.

Didn't like it. One of the worst films of all time. Though very well put together and a good storyline I thought it was cheesy at the same time. And those Umpa-Loompas give me the creeps. The whole movie gives me nightmares. The acting was so-so as was the directing. It is on my top of list of worst movies ever made. It is unbelievably unbelievable. The only thing really believable was the spoiled brat girl who turned into a blueberry. I'm unsure that I can say enough bad things about the movie fit the guidelines. This is most certiantly a movie I will never own. This movie along with E.T. and The Wizard of Oz go down in my book as horrible movies and one I would not recommend.

An affront to the book and absurd to boot. Sure, if you have good memories of watching this as a kid, you'll see it with rose-colored goggles, but the movie is really bad. The acting is terrible, especially by the main character Willy Wonka himself, the additions of characters like Slughorn are unnecessary, and in the end, Charlie wins it all even though he and grandpa Joe were as bad as the other children! Roald Dahl himself was so upset at this movie's adaptation of his book that he demanded in his will that no more Willy Wonka books be made into movies. That should tell you how terrible this film is.

Disturbing, Bizarre, Rambling. I just rewatched "Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory" for the first time since seeing it as a kid in school and I am left with the same impression, which is that this film is disturbing, bizarre and rambling, but mainly disturbing due to the way the film and Wonka treat the children. I get that the kids are supposed to be brats and that there is supposed to be some lesson in here for kids to be better behaved, but come on, kids are kids, and of course they would be excited to tour a chocolate factory. Why on earth this supposed kids musical decides to maim, mutilate and kill off the principal child characters is beyond me, but I found it disturbing as a child, and I still find it disturbing as an adult. Be forewarned, I wouldn't recommend this film for young children. 2/10 rating.