when i first went to the screening for this movie i was expecting it to be crap like the trailers suggested but i was surprised by how well made it is. this is an amazing movie that shows director Burton at his best. you all know the story by now so i won't waste time going over it. what i love about this movie is how they kept the things that made the original movie great and also added in their own wonderful stuff. the trailers and TV ads make Wonka look like an idiot or some freak but he's actually a pretty sweet man that's funny as hell. the kids are great too, although they get a bit annoying at times. danny elfman's music was also well done, it's not as good as the one he did for scissorhands but it still holds it own and the set design was amazing from start to finish. this is a great movie that's well shot and done in every way. it might just be the first remake since dawn of the dead that doesn't suck

I was pleased to have this "Willy Wonka" re-make meet my expectations. Those expectations were high, at least in the visuals department. I expected a wild, colorful ride with brilliant hues and good special effects...and I was not disappointed. It was inventively fun with those great visuals and another wonderful kid playing "Charlie." I doubted they could ever come up with another child as appealing and nice/wholesome as one in "Willy Wonka" but they found one in Freddie Highmore. He filled the bill magnificently, as did the "brat" kids. A different feature of this version, as opposed to the 1970 original, was that here the Oompa-Loompas were all played by just one person, a very small Indian man named Deep Roy. One of the interesting "features" on the DVD details how difficult that was to do and how much time Roy had to put in to do all the things he did. Johnny Depp, meanwhile, "did" what he always does - do a good job of playing a weird person. I get the feeling he relates easily to strange characters. He seems to play enough of them. This was the only part of the movie, frankly, where I preferred the 1970 version: the role of Willy Wonka. Yes, Depp was interesting as always but a little too weird, too Michael Jackson-like, for my tastes. I'll take Gene Wilder's take on the character. Otherwise, this re-make has it all over the original, simply because it has 35 years of technology and computer work that the original wasn't able to have. It made this re-make a real "hoot" to watch. Since entertainment is what the business is called, and this movie is extremely entertaining, then I have no complaints. A fun two hours!

I'm a fan of Tim Burton, a fan of Johnny Depp and a fan of Tim Burton and Johnny Depp together. I'm also a since-I-was-six fan of the classic Willy Wonka movie starring Gene Wilder. I was concerned that, despite the great experiences served up by Burton/Depp collaborations in the past, this one might fall short on sentiment and long on sarcasm growing from twisted trees. I shouldn't have worried. This film is, as every Tim Burton film is, a visual feast that draws you into a world that seems a combination of the real and unreal. This is a far less sweetly musical telling of the story, but Danny Elfman's music is a perfect fit for Burton's quizzically malevolent vision. Johnny Depp delivers a performance that can only be described as subtle slapstick. His Willy Wonka is equally an eccentric genius and nervous innocent. Burton's direction removes a lot of doubt about Wonka's motivations, and makes it OK for us to love Charlie, both pity and admire Willy, and laugh guiltily at the four despicable brats who get what they richly deserve. The Oompa-Loompas are not orange, a little wackier, and don't have scary theme music. The interior of the chocolate factory is less fun house and more never-ending stainless fortress. Charlie's family is featured more, and you find yourself wishing you could crowd around that big bed with them. Smaller children (under 7 years old) may be frightened by the puppet show, the boat ride or Veruca's squirrel scene, and unimpressed by some of the more nuanced humor. The classic is more "pure imagination," this one is more flaming puppets. The classic shows Willie Wonka working in his office, this one shows Willie Wonka discovering the Oompa-Loompas. It's quite unlike the prior film in it's look, tenor and musical treatment, but the overall theme of the good at heart winning out over the good for nothing is the same. It's wonderfully delicious.

I saw this at a free screening, and first of all, before I talk about the movie itself, I'm going to yell at everyone who is trying to compare "Charlie" to "Wonka." It's ridiculous. Depp and Burton have stated, numerous times, that they are not "remaking" the first movie. They are making a new movie, based on the book. Depp has never even seen the old movie before, on purpose. Also, looking at the other side of things, they are NOT trying to purposefully be unlike the old movie either! If anyone thinks Tim Burton would be that petty, they don't know Tim Burton's attitude towards film making. Okay, now that that's off my shoulders. The movie was excellent. I went in not knowing what to expect and came out with a grin that wouldn't go away. The effects were great, the acting was magnificent throughout, and thank god they cast Depp instead of some of the other strange considerations they were thinking of. To some who say Jim Carey should have played the role, I say...dead wrong you are. Jim Carey has made one good movie, and that was eternal sunshine. He's not a good comedian and I hope he realizes that soon. Anyway, I digress. The movie was excellent, that's all there was to it, and I bet if the first one had never been made, more of you haters would think the same thing.

I saw "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" this weekend just after it opened, and all I can say is that I thought it was a heck of a lot better than the critics made it out to be. Johnny Depp played the part of Willy Wonka exactly as I had pictured him from the book, and it was a shock to know that this quirky chocolate maker had also been Capt. Jack Sparrow from "Pirates of the Caribbean." Talk about talent. Another thing was that the movie followed the book a lot better than the original "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." There were a few parts added to give Wonka some background, but nothing major. Plus, all of the other actors (the children, in particular) gave perfect portrayals of their parts. This is a must see for the whole family!

So I have read an awful lot of negative comments about the new "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory". I myself have actually had the amazing chance to see a sneak preview of this movie in a contest and would like to put MY two cents worth in. This is most definitely not a movie for young children with its hidden jokes and bizarre jumping about. A magical menagerie of color and wit with some very dark and eerie elements, this is a refreshing change from the very happy go lucky type movie that made up the original. While no one will ever be able to replace the truly amazing Gene Wilder as quirky chocolatier Willy Wonka, Johnny Depp adds new life and oddity to the character. The character of Charlie was wonderfully cast, using young Freddie Highmore to play him. The necessary chemistry required to make a movie actually work was extremely noticeable between Depp and Highmore because of their work together in the drama "Finding Neverland". All in all I thought "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" was a wonderful movie but definitely not for the children.

I was extremely pleased with the new Charlie and The Chocolate Factory movie, remake of the 70's Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Tim Burton did an excellent job recreating the original lines and incorporating his own interpretation, which made this 2005's version exciting, comedic and entertaining. I loved the mix of characters that starred - some rookies and some vets - their roles were played magnificently. I was also very pleased with Johnny Depp's performance in relation to the original Willy Wonka. I arrived thinking his role was going to be like most every other role he's played, with his own attitude. But, it was totally different from what everyone was used to, and it was hilarious. I loved the mix of sarcasm and comedy. The audience was full of a mix of different ages and everyone was laughing and really getting into it. The end was one of the best parts because everyone thought it was going to end negatively, but of course they made it even better than the original. Everyone was on their feet and clapping for a job well done. Tim Burton, Johnny Depp - Bravo!

If you have been a Burton and Depp fan since Edward Scissorhands, you will find their interpretation of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory to be a tasty treat. The sets, the costumes, Depp's performance as the phobic Wonka, go beyond eye candy. A real feast! And Elfman's soundtrack manages to extract some of the most embarrassing tunes from the 1960s (ones that we wished would have remained buried in the deepest recesses of our memories) to add an equally memorable and entertaining audio experience. Freddie Highmore once again delivers a performance that makes us wish he will never grow up, as all young actors do. So grab your Wonka bars and golden tickets and head out to the theater. This is one movie you really should see on the big screen.

I saw the movie on IMAX through a radio station. I was optimistic about going because the theater was far away, But after it was over I was glad I went. The movie was in my opinion better than the original. Tim Burton directing it made the movie good, but Johnny Depp made it even better. The movie was also great because it followed the book more than the Willi Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. The Characters and Factory made it seem very much like a Rohl Doll which is why this one is a fun, wacky, and hilarious movie. If you see this movie I bet you'll be laughing the whole time. The timing of the movie was also nice because the movie was almost exactly 2 hours with previews an the beginnings of the credits.

A brilliant and imaginative reinvention of a classic tale- Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (like the title) stays a lot more true to Roald Dahl's original source material and makes for a wonderfully wild and entertaining time. Growing up as a youngin- I felt deeply connected to Roald Dahl's imaginative and vibrant stories; having written such books a James and the Giant Peach, Fantastic Mr. Fox, The Witches, Matilda and so many more- but no book ever meant more to me than Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. When I saw the original film, wide-eyed and excited after reading the book a handful of times already, I felt an immense amount of disappointment and boredom. The original film's acting is dreadful, lacking of a consistent tone, broad and incredibly thin pacing, and all together just a very structurally unsound film. Thus I turned my child eyes to the work of Tim Burton with this film and immediately fell in love. It's such a beautiful adaptation from the source material, giving us the same songs used in the book, and staying incredibly accurate to the storytelling- with a few additions of course for the films runtime. All the films additions though, I really did enjoy, and provided a lot more heart to not only the film but also the character of Willy Wonka in general. The performances are all rather good, not a huge fan of the child actor playing Mike Teavee, but everyone else was perfectly cast and fun to watch- especially Johnny Depp's oddball character performance as the iconic character. The look and tone of the film exudes more of a dark energy, but I feel adds a lot to the wonder and whimsicalness of the story at hand. In the end, it may be an unpopular opinion, but I loved this film and would prefer it any day to the original adaptation.